# Predicting Perioperative Outcomes from Surgical Data During One Lung Ventilation

Patients routinely undergo surgeries executed under general anesthesia that require ventilation. Sometimes this mechanical ventilation is not only harmful to health but also a significant cause of death. One lung ventilation (OLV) assisted lung surgery is not free from those complications. During OLV assisted lung surgery, ventilation is applied to the lung opposite the side of the operation, and the other lung (where the surgery will take place) is already damaged. For these reasons, mechanical ventilation procedures may cause acute ventilator-induced lung injuries. These lung injuries can be the reason for different pulmonary and respiratory complications, which may lead to patient death. So it is essential to predict OLV assisted surgery-related outcomes to reduce negative results. I have used machine learning to predict the perioperative outcome. I have used a realworld dataset of OLV assisted lung surgeries collected in Manitoba. The dataset is the real-time olv assisted lung surgery data from 82 patients surgery information.
Due to the uneven class distribution, I have used SMOTE for oversampling the data. I divided the dataset into three parts: i) Preoperative Data, ii) Intraoperative Data, and iii) Combined Data. Three different classification algorithms, Random Forests (RF), Support Vector Machines (SVM), and Logistic Regression (LR), have been applied to the different combinations of datasets. Using intra-operative data oversampled by SMOTE using the SVM classification algorithm gives the best accuracy with an F1-score of 0.70 and AUC of 0.62 for the prediction of surgical complication.
